---
layout: post
title: "Blog Entry #10 – Week Nine, Ten & Eleven"
comments: false
description: "My experience during the ninth, tenth and eleventh week of the placement"
keywords: "placement, uni, university, blog, internship, software engineering, software development, week nine, week ten, week eleven, phabricator , software development life cycle, c#, documentation, sharepoint, sql, meetings, subversion, svn, code review, linq"
---

**Word count:** 1433

**Week 9:** 2<sup>nd</sup> Oct - 6<sup>th</sup> Oct

# Placement

## Monday
Started the week off by getting the requirement specification approved by the client, and meeting two new people who joined the company. Proceeded to spend rest of the day implementing data processing.

## Tuesday
Spent Tuesday working from home due to yet another rail strike. Wrote some fixes and more processing logic, in addition to doing some general debugging and getting the data processing to behave the way it's supposed to.

Later in the day I received code reviews of my older commits, after receiving which I worked on improving error handling, reducing code nesting (this really helped making more complex code easy to read and understand), and moving my basic logging from console output to debug output using C# diagnostics.

## Wednesday

- Fixing data processing logic after some suggestions in the code review
- Team meeting

## Thursday
Second day of rail strike - working from home once again! Finally finished fixing the processing logic. Got a lot of help form Ian in terms of image thumbnail generation, which made me realise how much more I've yet to learn. And received a reminder of how much faster more experienced developers are at writing code (seems obvious, but seeing it first-hand this really puts things in perspective).

## Friday
Implemented the thumbnail gen code Ian helped me with on Thursday. Also, the cold that was slowly developing over second half of this week really set in.

# Other

- Went to see Blade Runner 2049 (absolutely loved it, great film)
- Spent the weekend overcoming the cold
- Very *very* minor progress on my personal project

-----

**Week 10:** 9<sup>th</sup> Oct - 13<sup>th</sup> Oct

# Placement

## Monday
Still recovering from the cold, and because of sleeping avg 14hrs a day over the weekend overslept and came in ~2.5hrs late. Unfortunate, but made up the hours working from home after office hours.

- Got some advice about loggers and IoC (Inversion of Control)
- Opted for using log4net as I've used, and am familiar with predecessor - log4j
- More code review fixes!
- Sorted out some *//TODO* tasks which I had laying around
- Began adding loggers to the project

**[Update 24/10/2017]** On slightly unrelated, but good note, one of the company's major projects (OpenLV) had an article written about it in The Register. The article can be foud [here](https://www.theregister.co.uk/2017/10/11/openlv_substation_electricity_data/)

## Tuesday
Further code review fixes, and started looking into unit testing my codebase.

## Wednesday
More code review fixes, and began writing some unit tests.

If it's not yet obvious, I'm actively trying to make sure I'm following the best development practices to both utilise things I've learnt thus far and get as much useful insight into various areas of development as I can, whilst making sure the project is in best condition it can be.

## Thursday
More unit testing, weekly team meeting and started thinking about how to solve one of the dumbest edge case problems my data processing approach faces.

## Friday

```
[TestMethod]
public void TomUnitTesting_IsBored()
{
    TomUnitTesting tom = new TomUnitTesting(Day.Four);
    Assert.AreEqual(true, tom.IsBored);
}
```

And look! Another test has passed.

**P.S.** In all honesty, I found unit testing giving quite a refreshing perspective on behaviour of my software. Ideally, I will try to move forward with a more TDD approach (doubt it will happen, but it's worth being kept at back of my mind)  

# Other

- Finally got a long overdue haircut
- Around 138km of cycling over the weekend ahead of storm Ophelia

-----

**Week 11:** 16<sup>th</sup> Oct - 20<sup>th</sup> Oct

# Placement

## Monday
Started the week off with a bi-weekly meeting with the project client and Ian and discussed the edge case issue which I started thinking about solving and progress I have made over last two weeks.

Lee set up a DB and a server for me to test my software under. However, I have been putting off implementing my DLL into a service for a while as there were frequent changes happening and I was unsure about adding SQL into the actual codebase. All of which came to bite me in the ass a bit.

## Tuesday
Further SQL integration into the project. Half-way through the day I fully acknowledged that I am back to writing poor code (based on usual tell tales: long methods, a lot of nesting, increasing number of global variables etc.), at which point I asked some quick feedback from Ian to make sure I better understand how SQL works inside C# and help myself avoid going down the usual route of writing, rewriting, and rewriting the same code to make sure it's good, when I could have written half of it correctly (or correctly enough) first or at least 2<sup>nd</sup> time around.

Jake also admitted that he used to have the same hard-headed approach in the past, as the one I'm trying to currently break myself. As it stands now I am still finding my footing on balancing: asking for help and being independent in solving problems. It's a fine line, which if found - would make life much easier. But for now, I just my tactic of asking for help once I’ve been stuck on a problem for ~30min-1hour, which I believe shouldn’t take long, doesn’t bother others.

## Wednesday
Started making changes in-line with suggestions I received on Tuesday, and once I felt I had a *somewhat* working service I tried to deploy and see where it breaks - funnily enough, it wouldn't even start.

Had a short meeting regarding software suite used to design PCBs (Printed Circuit Boards) and now I have a basic understanding of how they're designed and manufactured. Quite interesting stuff!

Spent rest of the day solving rest of the SQL problems which I wasn't aware of, and hunting these errors down really put me in the wrong head space. Might be time to take this garbage out and write some good SQL code which wouldn't be such a headache, but then again when hasn't SQL caused headaches...

## Thursday
Thursday consisted of me starting to implement LINQ before pointing out that LINQ is slow and overall rubbish in comparison to other approaches - which is when I switched to UoW. This time with a working example to learn from, and better understanding of how C# - SQL Database work.

Rest of the day was filled with meetings. One of the more important meetings which I attended was the team meeting where everyone reflected on how the company has been performing and how it can improve and restore employee satisfaction across the board (post survey results earlier in the year). Personally, I had nothing to contribute as I've just joined the company and had no complaints, however feedback from rest of the team was very insightful in seeing how minor changes higher in business hierarchy can affect the employee attitudes.

To end the day there was a meeting where my line manager went through how the NDOs function, where the company products and solutions come in and what general problems they solve. Learnt quite a bit of information and one of the main take-aways was that knowing how computer networks work and understanding tree graph theory really came in handy understanding a network which I knew very little about prior to this training-meeting. Yet again, a very valuable meeting!

## Friday
Spent the whole day implementing the Unit of Work pattern into the codebase, writing it all out after getting a better understanding of how the SQL behaves inside the C# / .NET environment was quite informing and hopefully will allow me to engrain the idea of abstraction into my head.

The dumb and counterproductive idea that code *must* be written in as few lines as possible and contain as few files as possible which I picked up some 2-3 years ago has stuck around for much longer than it should have. Even though I understand that notion is not doing me any favours it remains tough to habit to break. Simple, general purpose layers of abstraction is what allowed us to bring computing to this point. Writing code which goes against this rule will get me nowhere... and so the learning continues.

# Other

- Finished reading "Everyware: The Dawning Age of Ubiquitous Computing" by Adam Greenfield on Monday
- Found and patched few RAM hogging problems inside my side project (yay for total ~30KB worth of graphics no longer using ~200MB+ RAM)
- Restarted reading "Thinking, Fast and Slow" by Daniel Kahneman after having this book on the shelf since start of the year.
- Internet connection at the house has been awful last few weeks, really hoping the fibre upgrade at the end of the month will solve the problem.
