---
layout: post
title: "Blog Entry #14 – Week Fourteen - Nineteen"
comments: false
description: "My experience during the fourteenth, fifteenth, sixteenth and seventeenth week of the placement"
keywords: "placement, uni, university, blog, internship, software engineering, software development, week fourteen, week fifteen, phabricator, software development life cycle, c#, sql, subversion, svn, code review, debugging, christmas, fixes, music, automated algorithm design"
---

**Word count:** 1743

**Week 14:** 6<sup>th</sup> Nov - 10<sup>th</sup> Nov

# Placement
## Monday
Organised high level code to be much easier to read and follow. Added hit 100 commits on the project!

## Tuesday
Cleaned up some old parts of the code. Implemented few key system operations based on core structure I made on Monday.

## Wednesday
Worked from home and forgot my laptop charger... And therefore, I spent most of the day trying to connect to the company network from my old linux pc to no avail. Had weekly team meeting and committed minor changes I had lying around. Also changes some exceptions with `enum` returns.

## Thursday
Got the system up and running, fixed a very annoying `string` related bug with help of James, turns out I simply forgot to increase `varchar` size in the database... 

## Friday
Went step by step through the whole system (few times), debugging and making small, iterative improvements to ensure smooth sailing for the Monday meeting with the customer.

Managed to cross out number of open tasks and put them down for review when Ian/Lee are back. Made good amount of progress and prepared myself for the meeting next week.

---

**Week 15:** 13<sup>th</sup> Nov - 17<sup>th</sup> Nov

# Placement
## Monday
Started going through the system (top-down) seeing where I can make small improvements (such as better naming, solving things I noted down as to-do and so on). The customer postponed the meeting to the end of the day which gave me time to ensure all the things I wanted to show, were in fact still working after my changes (things that aren't covered by unit tests).

Meeting went splendidly and as Ian's away I asked Jake to help out, by making sure I don't babble on. Lastly the customer finally (a lot later than I would have liked) linked me to the location where more sample files are located. And as soon as the meeting was over I started digging through them to find any discrepancies.

In the end, I found few minor discrepancies which shouldn't be too hard to account for, however the last template I had a look at would require quite a significant amount of work in order to be accounted for. This will require some investigating, but at first glance looks like it might be a right pain in the ass.

## Tuesday
Finished going through the files, noting down any deviations from the file I was supplied with initially. I contacted the client about the deviations to figure out which ones the system needs to be prepared to handle.

As I was waiting for the response, I decided it would be worth going over my old code, refactoring it and writing as many (thorough) unit tests as I could. This in turn would give me at least a basic safety net, which will come in handy when making changes to account for all the edge cases I found. Not much *new* progress was made, although something noteworthy - I wrote set of unit test for a class, which already was covered. Any who the new tests were superior and more in-depth!

## Wednesday
Half-day and working from home! I received a response from the client regarding edge cases I detected. The worst of the edge cases I located is not something I need to be concerned with!

With work done, I headed down to Nottingham to meet up with friends which I haven't seen it a while, I also attended a talk about *Automated Algorithm Design* presented by Thomas Stutzle.

## Thursday
Forgot to note down what I worked on...

## Friday
Worked on decoupling key aspects of the code in preparation to making the system more testable, and did general refactoring, seeing as I've improved quite a bit since I've written the code originally. Also, I began installing one of the product images for the team tester (Ben) to test.

---

**Week 16:** 20<sup>th</sup> Nov - 24<sup>th</sup> Nov

# Placement
## Monday
Separated few layers of concern, which ensures that different levels of abstraction do not mix.

## Tuesday
More old logic decoupling (by old, I'm talk written few weeks/months ago), then unit testing the decoupled classes, and adding minor things to account to handle recently discovered edge cases.

## Wednesday
First software design review eve; my software got absolutely shredded! I joke, most of the things that got pointed out where low level things like using `var` instead of explicitly declaring the type. There were few other, minor suggestions that I received, but as a whole, the review went much better than I anticipated.

## Thursday
Began making the improvements, based on the feedback I received on Wednesday. One of the main things that was pointed out, was my usage of magical values everywhere. And to mock that I added a new meme to Phabricator which is to be used during morning audits whenever a magical value appears. Lastly, I updated number of existing and added a bunch of new unit tests.

## Friday
I have no memory of this day...

---

**Week 17:** 27<sup>th</sup> Nov - 1<sup>st</sup> Dec

# Placement
## Monday
Started the week off by cancelling the meeting with the client, as no significant and tangible progress has been made since the last meeting. I proceeded by making further improvements based upon code/design review feedback and began writing implementation/change to account for an edge case in data verification.

## Tuesday
Finished implementing the verification thing I began on Monday.

## Wednesday

- Code review fixes
- Fixed thumbnail generation calling logic, thumbnails are now being generated once again!

## Thursday
Fixed an issue where thumbnail generation wasn't able to save the thumbnail image data, because the directory location did not exist. Fix simply created appropriate folder structure necessary by checking whether it exits (I started writing my own implementation for number of these checks, but I noticed that the exact implementation already existed in .NET).

Managed to do A LOT of debugging and implemented an archiving feature which was brought up during last meeting with the client.

## Friday
Made improvements to auto-generation of certain data values inside the database. Had a catch-up with Ian and spent the whole morning decorating the office with Christmas music by Jake! Overall a *very* productive week.

---

**Week 18:** 4<sup>th</sup> Dec - 8<sup>th</sup> Dec

Spent half the week in Rome, and Friday was spent at company Christmas lunch.

---

**Week 19:** 11<sup>th</sup> Dec - 15<sup>th</sup> Dec

# Placement
## Monday
Began writing configuration file implementation, managed to get good amount of progress done. Went with the Soc/SRP approach and wrapped config interaction in a simple object which would help reduce redundancy and make *train wreck* lines of code actually readable.

## Tuesday
As it turns out, my approach doesn't conform to the standard usage of `ConfigurationManager`, and without that point, I received no points which I thought to be valid enough. Regardless, I will be changing the implementation as suggested by others to get the task over and done with.

**Note from future self:** little did I know, was that what I was trying to do was already done by `ConfigurationManager` itself, and it was a different pattern that I was using incorrectly which triggered the weird feeling I had...

## Wednesday

- Added few new tasks to the projects' phabricator board to ensure that I finish all the necessary things
- Stronger exception handling when dealing with configs
- Finally managed to remove one of the hardcoded values which has been around for a while (took a while to figure out a good way of dealing with the issue)
- `Int32.MaxValue` fiasco

## Thursday
Fixed the `Int32.MaxValue` issue and updated unit tests

## Friday
Spent good portion of the day going over the correctness of the system to ensure that the final output into the database is well, correct. Managed to find number of relatively minor issues which shouldn't take too long to fix.

---

**Week 19:** 18<sup>th</sup> Dec - 22<sup>nd</sup> Dec

# Placement
## Monday (Design review day 2.0)
Spent morning preparing for the design review. I started the review of by deciding to get Ian up to date with what; me, Lee and Jake covered during the first review. However doing this took the whole afternoon and nothing new was covered...

However (un)surprisingly Ian being system architect/senior developer pointed out number of architectural flaws in my system, and going over everything again I too, realised the 'architecture' that I have currently is heavily flawed; number of checks are either pointless or done at wrong times, method namings were off and the fact that I haven't completely picked up DI/IoC patterns became apparent.

## Tuesday
After the daily, morning code review and stand-up I got right to implementing modifications based on the feedback I received on Monday.

The first thing I got doing was trimming the fat and getting rid of unnecessary things like pointless checks. Also began (re)implementing highest level logic and carried on with modifying some underlying logic to fit new (actual) needs (i.e., db reads), and removed a *ton* of old, useless code.

## Wednesday

- Removed over the top checks related to certain objects
- Removed obsolete code from currently used high-level-logic-manager class
- Created a task to keep track of all the changes I am making and be able to track it all back
- Modified how operations work to fit around the improved approach
- Ran into some problems with concurrent database connections with the container being used to control object instances. Managed to found a very verbose, but effective workaround to solve the concurrency issues. 

## Thursday

- Deleted obsolete `TaskManager` implementation, going forward with the new improved implementation
- Added individual interfaces for different operations, so it's easier to differentiate during object injection
- Removed obsolete checks and utterly useless class (it instantiated one object and returned the return value of one of the methods!)
- Moved config values to simply be injected into the objects opposed to retrieving the values from inside the object

## Friday
Working from home day before breaking up for Christmas/New Year holiday. As we were finishing early today and I had few doctor's appointments to attend I didn't manage to get everything I wanted to do, done. However, I still managed to;

- Clean up all of the verification classes to be on board with the new (correct) DI/IoC implementation. Objects are much cleaner and simpler now!
- One *patter*-like modification which I have been doing, now I moving away from: `boolean` return value plus `string` message containing the status of how piece of logic executed, to: using `void` return type and if there's an issue, simply throw an `exception`!
- Moved value verification closer to value retrieval
- Refactored one of the fundamental classes underlying the system logic
