---
layout: post
title: "Blog Entry #23 – Weeks Thirty Six - Forty One"
comments: false
description: "My placement experience during late April through start of June 2018"
keywords: "placement, uni, university, blog, internship, software engineering, software development, software development life cycle, c#, asp.net, mvc, model view controller, javascript, nuget, glimpse, svn, azure, blobs, containers, bugs, contribution to business, intellectual property, shared access signature, photoswipe, refactoring, maps, leaflet"
--- 

# Prelude
It's been couple of months since I've written these, and that's mostly because I didn't feel like there has been anything happening within the placement that's worthy of noting down and evaluating.

However, for the potential future benefit and to continue doing what I set out to do, I'll cover most significant things that I worked on/learnt/experienced over last month and a half (last couple of weeks will be covered soon).

# Placement Week 36 (23rd Apr - 27th Apr)
EDT YINI have a regular, "Contribution to the Business" award/competition. This event is focussed on determining whose contribution, over duration of the placement has contributed to the host company the most (or something along those lines). And on Tuesday I decided to write up my submission entry.

On Wednesday I had a day of work and headed down to Birmingham to attend another EDT organised event, this one centred around intellectual property. Out of all the EDT events that I had attended thus far, this one was by far the best. The topic covered, even though dry and relatively boring, was presented well and the ensuing discussions were quite beneficial. Also, having view of the city's skyline was quite neat.

Thursday, I figured out why my attempts at adding JS components, didn't work and after setting up Node.js and Bower, I managed to get the components up and running. From there I cleaned up and some pagination and table creation scripts.

I continued on with changing the source of dropdown values in order to be more closely tied to what internal staff can control. And lastly, I added [JScrollPane](http://jscrollpane.kelvinluck.com/), which will allow containing the large data-heavy tables which were distorting the page layout.

On Friday, I added delete job page, optimised job page loading times by cutting out unnecessary GET requests and performing the basic filtering on client-side. Additionally, I made minor UX improvements, which were suggested in a recent design review (mostly icons and useful counters).

To end the week I fixed the controller action which supplied the dropdown (ones I modified earlier in the week) values.

# Placement Week 37 (30th Apr - 4th May)
To better test the scroll pane I added last week I uploaded a larger data set to the database and observed that one of the pages' loading time grew linearly in respect to the data set provided.

Yes, the situation could be worse, however the issue was that the data set loading times were unacceptably long (what I was expecting to take ~1sec took ~1min). So I spent all of Monday making optimisations.

Kicked off Tuesday with an IP related meeting, and then proceeded to try and improve one of the page's loading times. I utilised Glimpse nuget package (no link, since I'm not sure which version exactly) to quickly figure out, what exactly took up most time and resources.

That aside I made minor UX changes after suggestions by the project stakeholders. Oh, and it might be worth mentioning, but as I found out around this time, the key stakeholder I was working with to deliver this project, is leaving the company before end of my placement and it will be delivered to somebody else.

Before the end of the day I decided to improve the performance of an older half the project, as it was taking too long to serve data I was trying to test front-end with. At this point, it was quite late in the day and after messing around with creating branches via Tortoise SVN I gave up.

The following day I got shut down by Ian, as MVP is a priority and premature optimisation isn't the best way to go about things. And since I completely I agreed with that, I "removed" the recently created branch and carried on with the day. Now it's worth mentioning, I've only created/checked out and performed other similar operations via git powershell. So doing repo management via a clunky GUI, and with SVN, it wasn't something I was particularly good at... (keep this in mind).

On Thursday, I added content type to the blobs being uploaded to the storage, which helped retrieve and display the photographs.

Friday saw me reviewing the contribution to the business entry with my manager the the project stakeholder (everything seems good to go!). Then I proceeded to fix a DB bounds issue (field I wasn't expecting to reach upper bound... did reach it), I also dropped thumbnail quality since I had shrink them to even fit them on the page... (helps saving storage & screen space), additionally implemented a small fix helping deal with invalid source inputs and as I've been looking into Azure [SAS](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/common/storage-dotnet-shared-access-signature-part-1) (Shared Access Signature) tokens, I realised that my life would be much easier, if instead of using a single container, multiple ones were utilised, so I spent a little bit of time on that.

# Placement Week 38 (7th May - 11th May)

- Azure container name checks & generation
- Fixed a bug where a field was missing from one of the SQL scripts
- Coupled frequently used values into a single object as a minor refactor and accidentally introduced a bug which I didn't come across until later in the week (turns out order in which you set values matters)
- Added azure container names into DB to prevent requirement checks preventing access to existing containers
- Added basic photograph blob retrieval and photo displaying to the tower page

# Placement Week 39 (14th May - 18th May)

- Minor tasks: fixing broken tests, updating configs, removing dead code, adding files which I forgot to commit
- Added [PhotoSwipe](http://photoswipe.com/) JS photo gallery to display the photographs
- Got around to cleaning up the SVN nonsense from earlier. What happened was that I initially created a branch in a wrong place, then without checking into trunk (master branch), I created another branch (branch of a branch), and deleted the wrong branch (the intermediate branch), and when I thought everything was going into trunk, it was going into this incoherent branch. So I had to clean the mess up, which didn't take particularly long after I realised that there was indeed a command line based interface to SVN (although Tortoise SVN, as much as I dislike it, did help resolve merge conflicts and stuff).
- Implemented PhotoSwipe to display the photos once any of the thumbnails are clicked
- Added small counter to tick off an item on requirement sheet
- Added a separate section to display defects
- Update to photograph layout

# Placement Week 40 (21st May - 25th May)

- CSS updates, added descriptors next to the defect images where they're actually relevant (this tiny change has greatly improved the UX, and customer seemed very pleased about it)
- Cleaned up tower page to look more polished and professional
- Changes to one of the controllers to be more OO
- Added loading animations
- Added dates to few pages to provide context, this tiny change greatly improved navigational experience of the web app
- Refaaaactoring
- Added missing claim checks
- Abstracted away commonly used JS scripts
- Started unifying how pagination is done (there was an unhealthy mix of 2 approaches throughout the app)
- More refactoring you say?
- More pagination unification!!
- Did someone order another plate of fresh refactoring? (this time it's the scripts that deal with pagination I've been adding and fixing around the web app)

At this point I've had a little exposure to Javascript and JS ecosystem and I'm not sure how I feel about it all just yet. One thing I'm certain about, is that weakly typed languages are not my cup of tea.

# Placement Week 41 (28th May - 1st Jun)
At this point in my project I finally decided to implement a map feature, which I have been dreading as I felt it would be difficult to implement and would take significant amount of time, which is why I spent a significant amount of time making sure everything else was working as well as I could make it. I couldn't have been more wrong.

I started by installing and messing around with [Leaflet](https://leafletjs.com/). Second, and equally important task right around now was getting the archaic [OSGB36](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ordnance_Survey_National_Grid) grid references being converted into modern [WGS84](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/World_Geodetic_System) latitude & longitude values. Just as a prelude, if you're coming into this blindly, and want write your own converter from scratch it's going to be an absolute nightmare. There are methods available, that detail how to correctly convert different geodesic formats into one another, but they do not convert into clean, OO code, so just be aware of that.

Luckily, I came across an existing converter in public domain, that was ripped from an old JS converter (yeah, it's a right mess), but with little bit of work I got general gist of how it works and what exactly I needed.

With this in place I managed to string together the feature of the web app that I dreaded. All of this was achieved within couple of days, where I feared it might take couple of months (it could've easily taken that if I did everything from scratch).

Rest of the week was spent on:

- Adding deltas to unit tests to deal with acceptable error margins
- Javascript script refactoring
- Improvements to dropdown js scripts
- Cleaned up and finished one of the edit pages
- Fixed a bug
