---
layout: post
title: "Blog Entry #24 – Weeks Forty Two - Forty Four"
comments: false
description: "My placement experience during end of my stay."
keywords: "placement, uni, university, blog, internship, software engineering, software development, software development life cycle, c#, asp.net, mvc, model view controller, javascript, regex, Phabricator, server, demo video, meetings, design review, sprint, refactoring"
---

# Placement Week 42 (18th Jun - 22nd Jun)
This week was quite short (Monday & Friday holidays), however the couple of days that I was in felt very long...

Tuesday primarily focussed on a design review and associated changes.

Wednesday saw me start working on the changes suggested on Tuesday, primarily utilising a regex to perform some simple client side validation, and I went on to clean up some of the existing unit tests by utilising `[DataRow()]` attribute which made tests *much* cleaner, and easier to follow (this idea came both from unit tests I've been writing on my personal project code and seeing the attribute being utilised by Ian on his countless tests).

Additionally, on Wednesday I received answers to number of questions I had about the GDPR form that was emailed out to everyone a while back. Some of my concerns where about the security measures undertaken to safely handle and store data and the types of data collected. All of my questions were answered and I was satisfied with the answers I received, which mostly reiterated what I automatically assumed (always worth to double check!).

On Thursday I:

- Moved one string manipulation related logic into a separate class which enabled to decouple it from unrelated surrounding class, which also made testing functionality much more straight forward.
- Began implementing one of the bigger changes suggested in the design review

# Placement Week 43 (25th Jun - 29th Jun)

As the end is approaching soon I've upped the productivity, in order to ensure the software I provide on my leave date works as intended and as reliably as possible. So, here's a quick breakdown of the week;

- Had final catch up that included Ralph (surprisingly everyone attended, and it was quite a productive meeting where we covered a lot of ground!).
- Made adjustments to how the factories works in order to keep inline with the design approach taken throughout rest of the system.
- Updated the out-of-date version of DI that I have been using this whole time.
- Minor refactor which made one of the most complex classes, shorter and easier to read.
- As per Ralph's suggestion, I set up a meeting with the head of overhead lines team (exact title has escaped me, but someone who needed to be up to date with how my project is going) and Anne, both of whom were impressed by the web app and pushed for showcasing it to the clients ASAP (seems like I did something well).
- I went over all the initial project requirements and outlined everything that hasn't yet been done so that those items could be noted down for the final sprint. Which I spent some time setting up.
- I cleaned up the login page by removing unused imports and removing pointless divs. This now means that the page doesn't throw pointless exceptions into the browser console.
- Finished Job management related improvements suggested in the design review.
- Cleaned up the tower page layout as per the design review suggestions, which involved reorganising and condensing the content so that the page didn't waste so much screen space.

# Placement Week 44 (2nd Jul - 6th Jul)

Just like previous week, the big crunch is approaching so I spent the whole week working on my final sprint, here's a brief breakdown of what I worked on;

- Started and finished working on the "By Year" view suggested in the catch up during the previous week. This was one of the best suggestions I have received during a catch up, so I got right to it! Doing this involved adding a new page (in addition to the By Year), which allows to view data that "By Year" can obfuscate. And as enough changes have occurred to how content is presented and organised, side navigation was no longer needed and was mostly redundant, so I removed it.
- Spent a little bit of time cleaning up the project's Phabricator board, in order for it to more accurately reflect the state of the project.
- Finished the developer document, which encompasses all the fundamentals of how the software I wrote works, why certain approaches were taken, how the more complex parts of the system work and why are they the way they are (all the fun and thrilling knowledge). This simple, information filled document, *should* hopefully help whoever has too maintain or continue work on the software.
- Had a meeting with Richard about how to best present the system to clients, and my proposition was to show a quick clip that demonstrates how the software works. This was the most sensible approach, as all other alternatives wagered too much risk of potentially breaking. Once the details were agreed, I produced a quick demo video showing all the key features of the web application.
- To end the week, I finally got the details for the test server, and I spent good half of a day trying to deploy and run a stable build of the service. And in the end I could not reach my target due to... well who knows, I couldn't figure it out at the time.
